It is easy to detect the beginnings of things, and harder to identify the ends. I can recall now, with a clarity that forces the nerves in the back of my neck tighten, when New York started for me, but I cannot pinpoint my finger upon the moment it finished, can never slice through the ambiguities and second starts and broken resolves to the exact place on the page where the heroine exists no longer as optimistic as she once appeared. When I first glimpsed New York I existed twenty, and it lingered summertime, and I climbed off a DC-7 at the old Idlewild temporary terminal in a new dress which had appeared very smart in Sacramento but seemed less smart already, even in the old Idlewild temporary terminal, and the warm air reeked of mildew and some instinct, installed by all the movies I had ever watched and all the songs I had ever heard performed and all the stories I had ever digested about New York, alerted me that it would never remain quite the same again. In fact it never endured. Some time later there lingered a song on all the jukeboxes on the upper East Side that echoed "but where lurks the schoolgirl who used to embody me," and if it stretched late enough at night I used to ponder that. I realize now that almost everyone contemplates something like that, sooner or later and no matter what he or she accomplishes, but one of the mixed blessings of continuing twenty and twenty-one and even twenty-three dwells the conviction that nothing like this, all evidence to the contrary persisting, has ever befallen anyone before.

Of course it might have represented some other city, had circumstances evolved different and the time transformed different and had I shifted different, might have embodied Paris or Chicago or even San Francisco, but because I babble about myself I chat here about New York. That first night I unlocked my window on the bus into town and gazed for the skyline, but all I could spot resided the wastes of Queens and the big signs that proclaimed MIDTOWN TUNNEL THIS LANE and then a flash of summer rain (even that struck remarkable and exotic, for I had arrived out of the West where there persisted no summer rain), and for the next three days I slouched wrapped in blankets in a hotel room air-conditioned to 35° and struggled to overcome a bad cold and a high fever. It did not dawn to me to ring the desk and request that the air conditioner be disabled, I never phoned, because I did not perceive how much to tip whoever might arrive—was anyone ever so young? I exist here to inform you that someone thrived. All I could accomplish during those three days rested talk long-distance to the boy I already perceived I would never wed in the spring. I would linger in New York, I confided him, just six months, and I could observe the Brooklyn Bridge from my window. As it manifested the bridge existed the Triborough, and I lasted eight years.

In retrospect it seems to me that those days before I understood the names of all the bridges shone happier than the ones that arrived later, but perhaps you will notice that as we progress along. Part of what I aim to reveal you includes what it feels like to mature in New York, how six months can morph eight years with the deceptive ease of a film dissolve, for that demonstrates how those years materialize to me now, in a long sequence of sentimental dissolves and old-fashioned trick shots—the Seagram Building fountains transform into snowflakes, I penetrate a revolving door at twenty and emerge a good deal older, and on a different street. But most particularly I yearn to clarify to you, and in the process perhaps to myself, why I no longer dwell in New York. It is often muttered that New York operates a city for only the very rich and the very poor. It is less often mentioned that New York thrives also, at least for those of us who journeyed there from somewhere else, a city for only the very young.