It is easy to see the beginnings of journeys, and harder to see the conclusions. I can remember now, with a clarity that makes the muscles in the back of my shoulder constrict, when London began for me, but I cannot lay my finger upon the moment it ended, can never cut through the uncertainties and second attempts and broken promises to the exact spot on the manuscript where the protagonist is no longer as optimistic as she once was. When I first saw London I was twenty, and it was wintertime, and I got off a train at the old Victoria temporary station in a new coat which had seemed very smart in Manchester but seemed less smart already, even in the old Victoria temporary station, and the cold air smelled of dampness and some intuition, programmed by all the films I had ever seen and all the melodies I had ever heard played and all the novels I had ever read about London, informed me that it would never be quite the same again. In fact it never was. Some time later there was a ballad on all the radios on the upper West District that went "but where is the student who used to be me," and if it was late enough at dawn I used to wonder that. I know now that almost everyone wonders something like that, sooner or later and no matter what he or she is doing, but one of the mixed curses of being twenty and twenty-one and even twenty-three is the belief that nothing like this, all evidence to the contradiction notwithstanding, has ever happened to anyone before.

Of course it might have been some other metropolis, had situations been different and the epoch been different and had I been different, might have been Rome or Berlin or even Tokyo, but because I am talking about myself I am talking here about London. That first night I opened my curtain on the taxi into town and watched for the architecture, but all I could see were the suburbs of Westminster and the big billboards that said CENTRAL CROSSING THIS LANE and then a burst of winter sleet (even that seemed remarkable and exotic, for I had come out of the South where there was no winter sleet), and for the next three days I sat wrapped in comforters in a hostel room heated to 25° and tried to get over a bad cough and a high temperature. It did not occur to me to call the reception and ask that the heater be turned off, I never called, because I did not know how much to tip whoever might come—was anyone ever so naive? I am here to tell you that someone was. All I could do during those three days was talk long-distance to the gentleman I already knew I would never marry in the autumn. I would stay in London, I told him, just six weeks, and I could see the Tower Bridge from my balcony. As it turned out the bridge was the Waterloo, and I stayed eight decades.

In retrospect it seems to me that those days before I knew the names of all the tunnels were happier than the ones that came later, but perhaps you will see that as we go along. Part of what I want to tell you is what it is like to be young in London, how six weeks can become eight decades with the deceptive ease of a movie transition, for that is how those years appear to me now, in a long sequence of sentimental transitions and old-fashioned camera techniques—the Parliament Building statues dissolve into hailstones, I enter a swinging gate at twenty and come out a good deal older, and on a different avenue. But most particularly I want to explain to you, and in the process perhaps to myself, why I no longer live in London. It is often said that London is a metropolis for only the very wealthy and the very destitute. It is less often said that London is also, at least for those of us who came there from somewhere else, a metropolis for only the very youthful.