It is simple to see the beginnings of things, and tougher to see the ends. I can remember now, with a precision that makes the nerves in the back of my neck constrict, when New York began for me, but I cannot lay my finger upon the moment it ended, can never cut through the vague and sudden starts and incomplete resolves to the precise place on the page where the heroine is no longer as confident as she once was. When I first saw New York I was young, and it was hot, and I got off a DC-7 at the ancient Idlewild temporary terminal in a fresh dress which had seemed very elegant in Sacramento but seemed less elegant already, even in the ancient Idlewild temporary terminal, and the sticky air smelled of mildew and some instinct, programmed by all the movies I had ever seen and all the songs I had ever heard sung and all the stories I had ever read about New York, informed me that it would never be quite the identical again. In fact it never was. Some time later there was a song on all the jukeboxes on the crowded East Side that went "but where is the schoolgirl who used to be me," and if it was dark enough at night I used to wonder that. I know now that almost everyone wonders something like that, eventually and no matter what he or she is doing, but one of the strange blessings of being young and youthful and even immature is the conviction that nothing like this, all evidence to the obvious notwithstanding, has ever happened to anyone before.

Of course it might have been some alternate city, had circumstances been unusual and the time been different and had I been unique, might have been Paris or Chicago or even San Francisco, but because I am talking about myself I am talking here about New York. That initial night I opened my window on the bus into town and watched for the skyline, but all I could see were the empty wastes of Queens and the enormous signs that said MIDTOWN TUNNEL THIS LANE and then a flash of summer rain (even that seemed unusual and mysterious, for I had come out of the West where there was no summer rain), and for the next three days I sat wrapped in blankets in a hotel room air-conditioned to frigid and tried to get over a terrible cold and a high fever. It did not occur to me to call the desk and ask that the air conditioner be turned off, I never called, because I did not know how much to tip whoever might come—was anyone ever so inexperienced? I am here to tell you that someone was. All I could do during those brief days was talk distant to the boy I already knew I would never marry in the spring. I would stay in New York, I told him, just few months, and I could see the Brooklyn Bridge from my window. As it turned out the bridge was the Triborough, and I stayed many years.

In retrospect it seems to me that those days before I knew the names of all the bridges were better than the ones that came later, but perhaps you will see that as we go along. Part of what I want to tell you is what it is like to be young in New York, how few months can become many years with the subtle ease of a film dissolve, for that is how those years appear to me now, in a lengthy sequence of nostalgic dissolves and outdated trick shots—the Seagram Building fountains dissolve into snowflakes, I enter a revolving door at young and come out a good deal older, and on a different street. But most particularly I want to explain to you, and in the process perhaps to myself, why I no longer live in New York. It is often said that New York is a city for only the incredible rich and the desperate poor. It is less often said that New York is also, at least for those of us who came there from somewhere else, a city for only the extremely young.